---
aliases: ["How To Take Smart Notes"] 
tags: 
  - "books/read" 
  - "books/paperback" 
  - "books/english"
  - "books/personal-development"
  - "books/physical"
---
## Review

A very pragmatic and game chaging book on how to write notes that will work for you and skyrocket your creativity, productivity and thinking ability as a writter. 

This is a classic, especially for people who're interested on subjects like [Zettelkasten](The%20zettelkasten%20method%20and%20how%20to%20take%20smart%20notes.md) or [Digital garden](Digital%20garden.md). 

It really helps me to supercharge my note taking habits, how I consume books and how I can take the most of each things I'm learning. 

I really put efforts on doing what was advised during the book, taking note all along the reading experience and I'm very glad that it worked well. I put in place a better version of my Zettelkasten system, using `/Ω Fleeting notes` and `/Ω Litterature notes` to store and review note I captured each day using a notebook (mostly) or my phone. 

It's still taking me a bit of time to review all the things I'm writing, but I really see changes and output. How To Take Smart Notes is definitely a book I can recommand for anyone who wants to get more from the things they're learning! 

Now I finished it (2021-06-15), I'll start [How To Read A Book, The Classic Guide To Intelligent Reading - Mortimer J. Adler, Charles Van Doren](How%20To%20Read%20A%20Book,%20The%20Classic%20Guide%20To%20Intelligent%20Reading%20-%20Mortimer%20J.%20Adler,%20Charles%20Van%20Doren.md), which will surely be complementary. 

---
_The following was auto-generated by [Books and Binders](Books%20and%20Binders.md) and relates to the copy I own_
## How To Take Smart Notes
This book from Sönke Ahrens was edited by Kathy Drouin Keith and released 01/2017. I had it for 12.77€ from Amazon. I didn't read the 170 pages yet.

## More on this book :
- Buying date : 30/05/2021
- Buying condition : brand_new
- Actual condition : very_good
- Book type : physical
- Binding : paperback
- Language : English
- Category : Personal development
- ISBN : 9781542866507
- Weight in grams : 
