It can be, sometimes, quite overwhelming to read two books at the same time. At least for me, I realise that I can feel guilty sometimes about reading two books at once, because I feel like I would finish one to start another, maybe due to my strictness toward the fact that [Multitasking is counterproductive](Multitasking%20is%20counterproductive.md). 

Contrary to multitasking, reading two books at once can be a good thing. Some books can be really challenging, monument of #philosophy or #litterature, and it can lose one's volition to continue reading and go through it. I see myself sometimes struggle to open a difficult book that I'm reading, even though I want to read, just because I feel tired and don't want to spend time on a book that I need to understand, not because I don't like to, but because I want to spend quality time, with focus and energy on it. Obsviously, nobody is always on top of its focus and energy. 

For these moments, it can be a great thing to have a softer book to read. I liked how Robin Waldun, in his video, described his ["Two books system"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oaTcicNDpQc). He distinguishes two kind of books for his system: a *stretch* book, and *keep* book. 

The stretch book is the difficult one. The monument. The one to read, analyse, understand, meditate. The one that sometimes can push you so hard, that you want to quit it, but you know that it will be very rewarding to finish it. A one that stretch the mind. 

The keep book, is the lighter one. A book you can read with some flippancy, still learning something from it, but that can be open without too much volition. It is here to keep the will and the habit to read, still chalenge and learn things, but simple enough to rest from the stretch book. This one can be on a totally different topic (or not), a book, a comics, a magazine, but still need to be analog (opposed to digital read, like blog posts i.e., not opposed to eBooks), to keep the reading muscle warm. 
